---
owner: "#data-infra"
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable-file -->

# Service Playbook

Overview (Service / feature)
What is it? What does it do? Why this? Describe at a high level the functionality provided to clients (end users, components, etc.). Add links to ADRs

## Use cases

List out all the scenarios and explain with an example how this service can be used.

## Architecture

Explain how the architecture works. Describe the data flows between components. Consider adding a system diagram with critical dependencies, and request and data flows.

### Clients and Dependencies

List any upstream clients (owned by other teams also) that rely on it and downstream services (owned by other teams also) that it relies on. (These can also be shown in the system diagram.)

### Code and Configs

Explain the production setup. Where does it run? List binary names, jobs, data centers, and config file setup, or point to canonical location of these. Also provide code location and build info if relevant.
List and describe the configuration files, changes, and ports needed to operate this product or service.
Address the following: What configuration files have been modified for this product or service? How is the configuration handled?

### Processes

What daemons and other processes must be running to carry out the service? What scripts were created to manage this service?

#### Output
List and describe the log files created by or within the component and the monitoring running against it. Address the following: What log files are generated by the service? What does each file contain? What recommendations do you have for examining these log files? What aspects of the component must be monitored to ensure reliable service?

#### Monitoring - Dashboards and Tools

Link to the relevant dashboards and tools.

#### Capacity

List the capacity of a single instance; per-DC; globally: QPS, bandwidth, and latency numbers.

#### SLA

Give availability targets.

#### Common Procedures

Add links to procedures in Cookbooks. These could include load testing, updates/pushes/flag flips, etc. Link to alert documentation in the alerts playbook.

#### Clusters

Information on where this service is deployed, and how to access those machines.

#### Deployment 

How do you deploy this service? Favor Checklist manifesto style lists here as well.

#### Canary Deploy
Instructions on how to do a Canary Deployment
Do this canary thing
another canary task
#### Rollback Deploy

Instructions on how to Rollback a Deploy.
Get the rollback build here
Do this thing
Do this other thing.

##### References

Link to design docs on the component or related components, typically written by developer teams, and other related information.
