---
owner: "#squad-data-access"
---
# Looker Common Tasks

## People need access to Looker

The Looker lambda takes care of most cases, but if someone has their Aloka information outdated they might be missing some kinda of access.

Here are the most common cases:

## User request to create a New Folder:

Solution: Create a new folder on Shared Folders, allow Nubankers group View access and give the user who requested it Manage access.

1. Through the [Looker UI](https://nubank.looker.com/folders/home)

## User doesn't have access to SQL Runner

Solution: add the person to the `Basic User` group

1. Through the [Looker UI](https://nubank.looker.com/admin/groups?groupId=51)
2. Through nucli `nu looker add first_name.last_name --basic`

## User doesn't have access to schedule Dashboards or Looks

Solution: check if there's a Business Analyst or Data Analyst on the squad and if not add the person to the `Power User` group:

1. Through the [Looker UI](https://nubank.looker.com/admin/groups?groupId=5)
2. Through nucli `nu looker add first_name.last_name --power`

Tell the power user to be mindful on:

1. What you are trying to schedule: try to use datasets instead of contracts and not very complex queries
1. The time of the schedule: try to schedule the delivery early in the morning or late in the day, as some heavy schedules can impact the instance 

## User doesn't have access to a specific explore or Dashboard

Debugging process:
![https://mermaidjs.github.io/mermaid-live-editor/#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-IHMxXG5zMSAtLT4gWypdOiBVc2VyIGNhbiBhY2Nlc3MgdGhlIGNvbnRlbnRcbnMxIC0tPiBzMjogVXNlciBjYW4ndCBhY2Nlc3MgdGhlIGNvbnRlbnRcbnMyIC0tPiBzM1xuczMgLS0-IHM0OiBJdCdzIERhc2hib2FyZFxuczMgLS0-IHM4OiBJdCdzIGFuIEV4cGxvcmVcbnM0IC0tPiBzNVxuczUgLS0-IHM2OiBVc2VyIGRvZXNuJ3QgaGF2ZSBhY2Nlc3MgdG8gdGhlIFNwYWNlXG5zNSAtLT4gczc6IFVzZXIgaGFzIGFjY2VzcyB0byB0aGUgU3BhY2VcbnM2IC0tPiBzMVxuczcgLS0-IHM4XG5zOCAtLT4gczlcbnM5IC0tPiBzMTBcbnMxMCAtLT4gczExXG5zMTEgLS0-IHMxMlxuczEyIC0tPiBzMSIsIm1lcm1haWQiOnsidGhlbWUiOiJkZWZhdWx0In19](looker-debug-access.png)

## Adding a new BPO to Looker

Refer to this [video guide](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jjVEI2lIN7mnGAiR3MZ3jvlJ1SEgPSmz/view) on how to do this.
Ask @leonardo.matsuura for help.

## Disable Users who left Nubank

This process is done to free up Looker licenses, as disabled users do not count as used licenses.

To disable users refer to this notebook [this notebook](https://github.com/nubank/data-access/blob/master/looker-migration/not-nubanker-disabler.ipynb).

## Dashboard doesn't show any results

If someone mentions the `View Not Found` error and it's related to a explore on the `belomonte` project, it mostly likely is an issue with Bilbo. To confirm this first check if the dashboard was build with point & click and it's on top of an explore on the `belomonte` project. One way to check this is to inspect the url being accessed. If it's an explore is should be in this format: https://nubank.looker.com/explore/belomonte/{EXPLORE-NAME}. If it's a Look, check for the requests the broswer is making. One of them should fail with the `Not Found` error when requesting the following url: https://nubank.looker.com/api/internal/dataflux/explores/baggins/{EXPLORE-NAME}. If this is the case check the next section. If this is not the case it will probably be a new unknown issue, in this case ask for help from Data Access members.

## Recover missing LookML generated by Bilbo

Bilbo, the service which generates the LookML for the ETL datasets always looks at the current and the previous ETL run to get the list of all possible datasets that should be on Looker. It then filters those datasets, removing the PII ones and those that have no actions. If a dataset didn't run or was committed empty it won't have any actions, so Bilbo will simply ignore it and remove it's LookML from Looker. to recover such dataset:

1. Ask the person for the dataset names as defined in Itaipu, i.e. `dataset/aml-nuconta-movements`
2. Check the dataset status with `nu etl info <dataset-name> --n=2`, i.e. `nu etl info dataset/aml-nuconta-movements --n=2`
3. Look at the `actions` column. If both rows have no action it means the problem was with Bilbo
4. Go to [baggins](https://github.com/nubank/baggins/commits/master) and check the lastest commit from 3 days ago
5. Clone the project into your local machine and checkout this commit: `git checkout <latest-commit-sha-from-3-days-ago>`
6. Find the explore related to the dataset in `belomonte.model.lkml`. Copy the explore declaration related to the missing dataset. In this example the explore name would be `dataset__aml_nuconta_movements`. Slashes are replaced with two underscores and dashes with one
7. Find the datagroup related to the dataset in `datagroup.view.lkml`. Copy the datagroup declaration related to the missing dataset. In this example the datagroup name would be `dataset__aml_nuconta_movements_datagroup`
8. Find the view related to the dataset in the `partition_<number>.view.lkml` files. Copy the view declarion related to the missing dataset. In this example the view will be named `dataset__aml_nuconta_movements`, just like the explore.
9. Checkout the `validation` branch and create a new branch from it. 
10. Create a PR that add the explore, view and datagroup declaritions that you copied in steps 6,7,8. Feel free to add the view in any `partition_<number>.view.lkml` files. The PR should target the `validation` branch, not `master`. Here's the PR for this example: https://github.com/nubank/baggins/pull/52
11. After the PR is merged, go to Looker and check the `belomonte` project while in development mode: https://nubank.looker.com/projects/belomonte
12. Change from your personal branch to the `validation` branch: https://docs.looker.com/data-modeling/getting-started/version-control-and-deploying-changes#switching_to_another_git_branch
13. Pull the remote changes to your local env. This will make sure that your local env has the changes done in step 11.
14. Validate the LookML: https://docs.looker.com/data-modeling/getting-started/lookml-validation#running_validation
15. If the tests fail, repeat the steps from 10 onwards, fixing the lookml issues. If the tests pass, deploy the LookML to production: https://docs.looker.com/data-modeling/getting-started/lookml-validation#deploying_your_changes
16. Once the LookML has been deployed, exit the development mode and confirm that the explore exists
